README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# gmickel claude marketplace

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Claude Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude_Code-Plugin_Marketplace-blueviolet)](https://claude.ai/code)
[![Author](https://img.shields.io/badge/Author-Gordon_Mickel-orange)](https://mickel.tech)

**Workflows that actually ship.**

[Install](#install) · [Flow](#flow) · [Contributing](#contributing)

</div>

---

## Why This Exists

Most AI agent failures aren't about model capability—they're about process. Agents start coding before understanding the codebase, reinvent patterns that already exist, and forget the original plan mid-implementation.

This marketplace contains plugins that fix those problems.

## Install

```bash
/plugin marketplace add https://github.com/gmickel/gmickel-claude-marketplace
```

---

## Flow

**Two‑step workflow: plan first, work second.**

| Problem | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| Weak research | Parallel agents gather context upfront |
| Ignoring existing code | Explicit reuse of repo patterns |
| Drifting from plan | Plan re‑read between every task |
| No review discipline | Built-in Carmack-level code reviews |

```bash
/plugin install flow
```

### Quick Start

**Standalone:**
```bash
/flow:plan Add OAuth login for users
/flow:work plans/add-oauth-login.md
```

**Chained (how I actually use it):**
```bash
/flow:plan Add OAuth login, then review it with /flow:plan-review and fix any issues
```
```bash
/flow:work plans/add-oauth-login.md, then review with /flow:impl-review and fix issues until it passes
```

Claude understands intent and flows between commands automatically.

### What's Included

| Type | Count | Examples |
|------|-------|----------|
| Commands | 4 | `/flow:plan`, `/flow:work`, `/flow:plan-review`, `/flow:impl-review` |
| Agents | 5 | repo-scout, practice-scout, docs-scout, gap-analyst, quality-auditor |
| Skills | 5 | Progressive disclosure (~100 tokens at startup) |

Uses **progressive disclosure**—only name + description loaded at startup, full logic loads on-demand when triggered.

📖 **[Full documentation →](plugins/flow/README.md)** · **[Changelog →](CHANGELOG.md)**

---

## Contributing

1. Create `plugins/<name>/` with `.claude-plugin/plugin.json`
2. Add commands/agents/skills under that plugin root
3. Update `.claude-plugin/marketplace.json`
4. Validate: `jq . .claude-plugin/marketplace.json`

---

<div align="center">

Made by [Gordon Mickel](https://mickel.tech) · [gordon@mickel.tech](mailto:gordon@mickel.tech)

</div>

Commit message:

feat: add Beads integration to flow skills
- flow-plan: can create Beads epics instead of markdown plans
- flow-work: can use bd ready/update/close instead of TodoWrite
- flow-plan-review: accepts Beads epic IDs as input
- graceful fallback when bd unavailable
- no pointer files - just pass epic ID directly to flow:work

Bump to 0.4.0

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# gmickel claude marketplace

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Claude Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude_Code-Plugin_Marketplace-blueviolet)](https://claude.ai/code)
[![Author](https://img.shields.io/badge/Author-Gordon_Mickel-orange)](https://mickel.tech)

**Workflows that actually ship.**

[Install](#install) · [Flow](#flow) · [Contributing](#contributing)

</div>

---

## Why This Exists

Most AI agent failures aren't about model capability—they're about process. Agents start coding before understanding the codebase, reinvent patterns that already exist, and forget the original plan mid-implementation.

This marketplace contains plugins that fix those problems.

## Install

```bash
/plugin marketplace add https://github.com/gmickel/gmickel-claude-marketplace
```

---

## Flow

**Two‑step workflow: plan first, work second.**

| Problem | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| Weak research | Parallel agents gather context upfront |
| Ignoring existing code | Explicit reuse of repo patterns |
| Drifting from plan | Plan re‑read between every task |
| No review discipline | Built-in Carmack-level code reviews |
| Lost task state | Optional [Beads](https://github.com/steveyegge/beads) integration for dependency-aware tracking |

```bash
/plugin install flow
```

### Quick Start

**Standalone:**
```bash
/flow:plan Add OAuth login for users
/flow:work plans/add-oauth-login.md
```

**Chained (how I actually use it):**
```bash
/flow:plan Add OAuth login, then review it with /flow:plan-review and fix any issues
```
```bash
/flow:work plans/add-oauth-login.md, then review with /flow:impl-review and fix issues until it passes
```

**With Beads** (if `.beads/` configured):
```bash
/flow:work bd-a3f8e9   # Work on Beads epic with dependency tracking
```

Claude understands intent and flows between commands automatically.

### What's Included

| Type | Count | Examples |
|------|-------|----------|
| Commands | 4 | `/flow:plan`, `/flow:work`, `/flow:plan-review`, `/flow:impl-review` |
| Agents | 5 | repo-scout, practice-scout, docs-scout, gap-analyst, quality-auditor |
| Skills | 5 | Progressive disclosure (~100 tokens at startup) |

Uses **progressive disclosure**—only name + description loaded at startup, full logic loads on-demand when triggered.

📖 **[Full documentation →](plugins/flow/README.md)** · **[Changelog →](CHANGELOG.md)**

---

## Contributing

1. Create `plugins/<name>/` with `.claude-plugin/plugin.json`
2. Add commands/agents/skills under that plugin root
3. Update `.claude-plugin/marketplace.json`
4. Validate: `jq . .claude-plugin/marketplace.json`

---

<div align="center">

Made by [Gordon Mickel](https://mickel.tech) · [gordon@mickel.tech](mailto:gordon@mickel.tech)

</div>
