plugins/flow-next/docs/ralph.md, before:

# Ralph — Autonomous Loop

Ralph is Flow-Next's repo-local autonomous harness. It loops over tasks, applies multi-model review gates, and produces production-quality code overnight.

> **TL;DR**: External shell loop → fresh Claude session per task → cross-model review gates → receipt-based proof-of-work → iterate until SHIP.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
  - [How It Works](#how-it-works)
  - [Why Ralph vs ralph-wiggum](#why-ralph-vs-ralph-wiggum)
- [Quality Gates](#quality-gates)
  - [Multi-Model Reviews](#1-multi-model-reviews)
  - [Receipt-Based Gating](#2-receipt-based-gating)
  - [Review Loops Until SHIP](#3-review-loops-until-ship)
  - [Memory Capture](#4-memory-capture-opt-in)
- [Configuration Reference](#configuration-reference)
- [Review Backends](#review-backends)
  - [RepoPrompt](#repoprompt-integration)
  - [Codex CLI](#codex-integration)
- [Run Artifacts](#run-artifacts)
- [Controlling Ralph](#controlling-ralph)
- [Testing & Debugging](#testing--debugging)
- [Safety & Isolation](#safety--isolation)
  - [Docker Sandbox](#docker-sandbox)
  - [DCG (Destructive Command Guard)](#dcg-destructive-command-guard)
  - [Guard Hooks](#guard-hooks)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Morning Review Workflow](#morning-review-workflow)

---

## Quick Start

### 1. Initialize

```bash
# Inside Claude Code
/flow-next:ralph-init

# Or from terminal
claude -p "/flow-next:ralph-init"
```

Creates `scripts/ralph/` with:

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `ralph.sh` | Main loop |
| `ralph_once.sh` | Single iteration (testing) |
| `config.env` | All settings |
| `runs/` | Artifacts and logs |

### 2. Configure

Edit `scripts/ralph/config.env`:

```bash
PLAN_REVIEW=codex   # rp, codex, or none
WORK_REVIEW=codex   # rp, codex, or none
```

### 3. Test

```bash
scripts/ralph/ralph_once.sh
```

> **Always test first.** Runs one iteration then exits. Observe before committing to a full run.

### 4. Run

```bash
scripts/ralph/ralph.sh
```

Ralph spawns Claude sessions via `claude -p`, loops until done, and applies review gates.

**Watch mode** — see activity in real-time:

```bash
scripts/ralph/ralph.sh --watch           # Tool calls only
scripts/ralph/ralph.sh --watch verbose   # Include model responses
```

### 5. Monitor (Optional)

```bash
bun add -g @gmickel/flow-next-tui
flow-next-tui
```

Real-time TUI for task progress, streaming logs, and run state.

![flow-next-tui](../../../assets/tui.png)

### Uninstall

```bash
rm -rf scripts/ralph/
```

---

## Architecture

### How It Works

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  scripts/ralph/ralph.sh                                      │
│  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐  │
│  │  while flowctl next returns work:                      │  │
│  │    1. claude -p "/flow-next:plan" or :work             │  │
│  │    2. check review receipts                            │  │
│  │    3. if missing/invalid → retry                       │  │
│  │    4. if SHIP verdict → next task                      │  │
│  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  A[ralph.sh loop] --> B[flowctl next]
  B -->|plan needed| C[/flow-next:plan/]
  C --> D[/flow-next:plan-review/]
  B -->|work needed| E[/flow-next:work/]
  E --> F[/flow-next:impl-review/]
  D --> G{Receipt valid?}
  F --> G
  G -- yes --> H{Verdict = SHIP?}
  H -- yes --> B
  H -- no --> I[Fix issues, retry review]
  I --> G
  G -- no --> J[Force retry iteration]
  J --> B
```

### Why Ralph vs ralph-wiggum

Anthropic's official ralph-wiggum uses a Stop hook to keep Claude in the same session. Flow-Next inverts this for production-grade reliability.

| Aspect | ralph-wiggum | Ralph |
|--------|--------------|-------|
| **Session** | Single, accumulating | Fresh per iteration |
| **Loop** | Stop hook, same session | External bash, new `claude -p` |
| **Context** | Grows until full | Clean slate every time |
| **Failed attempts** | Pollute future work | Gone with session |
| **Re-anchoring** | None | Every iteration |
| **Quality gates** | Tests only | Multi-model reviews |
| **Stuck detection** | `--max-iterations` | Auto-block after N failures |
| **Auditability** | Session transcript | Logs + receipts + evidence |

**The core problems with ralph-wiggum:**

1. **Context pollution** — Failed attempts mislead future iterations
2. **No re-anchoring** — Claude loses sight of the spec as context fills
3. **Single model** — Claude grades its own homework
4. **Binary outcome** — Completion promise or max iterations

**Ralph's solution:** Fresh context + multi-model review gates + receipt-based proof-of-work.

---

## Quality Gates

Ralph enforces quality through four mechanisms:

### 1. Multi-Model Reviews

A second model verifies code. Two models catch what one misses.

| Backend | Platform | Context | Recommended |
|---------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `rp` | macOS (GUI) | Full file context via Builder | Yes |
| `codex` | Cross-platform | Heuristic context from changed files | Fallback |
| `none` | Any | — | Not for production |

- **Plan reviews** — Verify architecture before coding
- **Impl reviews** — Verify implementation meets spec

### 2. Receipt-Based Gating

Every review produces a receipt JSON:

```json
{
  "type": "impl_review",
  "id": "fn-1.1",
  "mode": "rp",
  "timestamp": "2026-01-09T..."
}
```

**No receipt = no progress.** Ralph retries until receipt exists.

This is at-least-once delivery. The agent is untrusted; receipts are proof-of-work.

### 3. Review Loops Until SHIP

Reviews block progress until approved:

```xml
<verdict>SHIP</verdict>
```

Fix → re-review → fix → re-review... until the reviewer approves.

**Verdict tags:**

| Verdict | Meaning |
|---------|---------|
| `<verdict>SHIP</verdict>` | Approved, proceed |
| `<verdict>NEEDS_WORK</verdict>` | Fix issues, re-review |
| `<verdict>MAJOR_RETHINK</verdict>` | Fundamental problems |

> **Common failures:**
> - Plain text "SHIP" → review skill not used correctly
> - Interactive prompt (a/b/c) → backend misconfigured
> - No verdict → check iteration log

### 4. Memory Capture (Opt-in)

When enabled, NEEDS_WORK reviews auto-capture learnings:

```bash
flowctl config set memory.enabled true
```

Builds `.flow/memory/pitfalls.md` — things reviewers catch that models miss.

> **Note:** Memory config is in `.flow/config.json`, separate from Ralph's `config.env`.

---

## Configuration Reference

Edit `scripts/ralph/config.env`:

### Reviews

| Variable | Values | Default | Description |
|----------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `PLAN_REVIEW` | `rp`, `codex`, `none` | — | Plan review backend |
| `WORK_REVIEW` | `rp`, `codex`, `none` | — | Impl review backend |
| `REQUIRE_PLAN_REVIEW` | `0`, `1` | `0` | Block work until plan approved |

### Branches

| Variable | Values | Default | Description |
|----------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `BRANCH_MODE` | `new`, `current`, `worktree` | `new` | Branch strategy |

- `new` — One branch for entire run (`ralph-<run-id>`)
- `current` — Work on current branch
- `worktree` — Git worktrees (advanced)

### Limits

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `MAX_ITERATIONS` | `25` | Total loop iterations |
| `MAX_TURNS` | ∞ | Claude turns per iteration |
| `MAX_ATTEMPTS_PER_TASK` | `5` | Retries before auto-blocking |
| `MAX_REVIEW_ITERATIONS` | `3` | Fix+re-review cycles per review |
| `WORKER_TIMEOUT` | `3600` | Seconds before killing stuck worker |

### Scope

| Variable | Example | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `EPICS` | `fn-1,fn-2` | Limit to specific epics (empty = all) |

### Permissions

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `YOLO` | `1` | Skip permission prompts |

> **Note:** `YOLO=1` is required for unattended runs. Set `YOLO=0` for interactive testing.

### Display

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `RALPH_UI` | `1` | Colored/emoji output |

### Codex-Specific

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `CODEX_SANDBOX` | `auto` | `read-only`, `workspace-write`, `danger-full-access`, `auto` |
| `FLOW_CODEX_EMBED_MAX_BYTES` | `500000` | Max bytes embedded in prompts |

> **Windows:** Use `auto` or `danger-full-access`. The `read-only` mode blocks all shell commands.

---

## Review Backends

### RepoPrompt Integration

When using `PLAN_REVIEW=rp` or `WORK_REVIEW=rp`:

```bash
flowctl rp pick-window --repo-root .  # Find window
flowctl rp builder ...                 # Build context
flowctl rp chat-send ...               # Send to reviewer
```

> **Never call `rp-cli` directly in Ralph mode.** Use flowctl wrappers.

Window selection is automatic. With RP 1.5.68+, `--create` auto-opens windows.

### Codex Integration

When using `PLAN_REVIEW=codex` or `WORK_REVIEW=codex`:

```bash
flowctl codex check                    # Verify available
flowctl codex impl-review ...          # Run impl review
flowctl codex plan-review <id> --files "src/auth.ts,src/config.ts"
```

**Requirements:**

```bash
npm install -g @openai/codex && codex auth
```

**Advantages:**
- Cross-platform (Windows, Linux, macOS)
- Terminal-based (no GUI)
- Session continuity via `thread_id`

---

## Run Artifacts

Each run creates:

```
scripts/ralph/runs/<run-id>/
├── iter-001.log           # Raw Claude output
├── iter-002.log
├── progress.txt           # Append-only run log
├── attempts.json          # Per-task retry counts
├── branches.json          # Branch info
├── receipts/
│   ├── plan-fn-1.json     # Plan review receipt
│   └── impl-fn-1.1.json   # Impl review receipt
└── block-fn-1.2.md        # Written when task auto-blocked
```

---

## Controlling Ralph

### CLI Commands

```bash
flowctl status                    # Epic/task counts + active runs
flowctl ralph pause               # Pause run
flowctl ralph resume              # Resume run
flowctl ralph stop                # Graceful stop
flowctl ralph status              # Show run state
flowctl ralph pause --run <id>    # Specify run when multiple active
```

### Sentinel Files

```bash
# Pause
touch scripts/ralph/runs/<run-id>/PAUSE

# Resume
rm scripts/ralph/runs/<run-id>/PAUSE

# Stop (kept for audit)
touch scripts/ralph/runs/<run-id>/STOP
```

Ralph checks sentinels at iteration boundaries.

### Task Retry/Rollback

```bash
flowctl unblock fn-1.2                    # Re-enable blocked task
flowctl update fn-1.2 --status pending    # Reset to pending
```

---

## Testing & Debugging

### Single Iteration

```bash
scripts/ralph/ralph_once.sh
```

Runs one iteration then exits. Verify setup before full runs.

### Watch Mode

```bash
scripts/ralph/ralph.sh --watch           # Tool calls
scripts/ralph/ralph.sh --watch verbose   # Include responses
```

Real-time visibility without blocking autonomy.

### Verbose Logging

```bash
FLOW_RALPH_VERBOSE=1 scripts/ralph/ralph.sh
```

Detailed logs → `scripts/ralph/runs/<run>/ralph.log`

### Debug Environment Variables

```bash
FLOW_RALPH_CLAUDE_MODEL=claude-opus-4-5-20251101
FLOW_RALPH_CLAUDE_DEBUG=hooks
FLOW_RALPH_CLAUDE_PERMISSION_MODE=bypassPermissions
```

---

## Safety & Isolation

### Docker Sandbox

Run Ralph inside Docker for isolation:

```bash
docker sandbox run claude "scripts/ralph/ralph.sh"
docker sandbox run -w ~/my-project claude "scripts/ralph/ralph.sh"
```

See [Docker sandbox docs](https://docs.docker.com/ai/sandboxes/claude-code/).

**Community sandbox setups:**

- [devcontainer-for-claude-yolo-and-flow-next](https://github.com/Ranudar/devcontainer-for-claude-yolo-and-flow-next) — VS Code devcontainer with Playwright, firewall whitelisting, RepoPrompt MCP bridge
- [agent-sandbox](https://github.com/novotnyllc/agent-sandbox) — Docker Sandbox (Desktop 4.50+) with seccomp/namespace isolation

### DCG (Destructive Command Guard)

[DCG](https://github.com/Dicklesworthstone/destructive_command_guard) blocks destructive commands before execution.

**What it blocks:**

| Command | Without DCG | With DCG |
|---------|-------------|----------|
| `git reset --hard` | Loses work | Blocked |
| `rm -rf ./src` | Deletes source | Blocked |
| `git push --force` | Overwrites history | Blocked |
| `git clean -f` | Deletes files | Blocked |

**Install:**

```bash
curl -fsSL "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Dicklesworthstone/destructive_command_guard/master/install.sh?$(date +%s)" | bash -s -- --easy-mode
```

**Compatibility:** DCG uses fail-open design — timeouts allow commands. Flow-next uses safe git patterns and quoted heredocs that DCG handles correctly.

**Project allowlist** (`.dcg/allowlist.toml`):

```toml
[[allow]]
command_prefix = "rm -rf .flow"
reason = "Flow-next cleanup/uninstall"

[[allow]]
command_prefix = "rm -rf scripts/ralph"
reason = "Ralph cleanup/uninstall"
```

**Verify:**

```bash
dcg test 'git reset --hard HEAD'    # Should block
dcg test 'git checkout -b feature'  # Should allow
```

**Uninstall:**

```bash
rm ~/.local/bin/dcg
# Edit ~/.claude/settings.json to remove dcg hook
rm -rf ~/.config/dcg/
```

**More info:** [DCG GitHub](https://github.com/Dicklesworthstone/destructive_command_guard) · [Pack Reference](https://github.com/Dicklesworthstone/destructive_command_guard/blob/master/docs/packs/README.md)

### Guard Hooks

Plugin hooks enforce workflow rules deterministically.

> **Only active when `FLOW_RALPH=1`** — zero overhead for non-Ralph users.

| Rule | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| No `--json` on chat-send | Preserve review text output |
| No `--new-chat` on re-reviews | Keep conversation context |
| Receipt before Stop | Prevent skipping reviews |
| Required flags on setup | Ensure proper targeting |

**Location:**

```
plugins/flow-next/
  hooks/hooks.json              # Config
  scripts/hooks/ralph-guard.py  # Logic
```

**Disable temporarily:** Unset `FLOW_RALPH`

**Disable permanently:** Delete `hooks/` directory

---

## Troubleshooting

### Review Gate Loops

**Symptoms:** Ralph keeps retrying the same task.

**Check receipts:**

```bash
ls scripts/ralph/runs/*/receipts/
```

**Check verdict:**

```bash
grep -i verdict scripts/ralph/runs/*/iter-*.log | tail -5
```

**Common causes:**
- No receipt file → review skill not invoked
- Wrong verdict format → plain text instead of XML tags
- Receipt exists but verdict is NEEDS_WORK → implementation has issues

### Auto-Blocked Tasks

After `MAX_ATTEMPTS_PER_TASK` failures:

1. Ralph writes `block-<task>.md` with context
2. Marks task blocked via `flowctl block`
3. Moves to next task

**To retry:**

```bash
flowctl unblock fn-1.2
```

### RepoPrompt Issues

**"rp-cli not found":**

```bash
# Install RepoPrompt, then:
which rp-cli
```

**Window not found:**

- RP 1.5.68+: Use `--create` flag
- Older: Open RepoPrompt on your repo manually

**Alternative:** Switch to Codex backend.

### Codex Issues

**"codex not found":**

```bash
npm install -g @openai/codex
codex auth
```

**Windows "blocked by policy":**

```bash
# In config.env:
CODEX_SANDBOX=auto
```

The `read-only` sandbox blocks all commands on Windows.

### Run Inspection

```bash
# Progress
cat scripts/ralph/runs/*/progress.txt

# Latest iteration
tail -100 scripts/ralph/runs/*/iter-*.log | tail -1

# Blocked tasks
ls scripts/ralph/runs/*/block-*.md
```

---

## Morning Review Workflow

After overnight runs, review and merge the work.

### 1. Check Completion

```bash
# Run status
cat scripts/ralph/runs/*/progress.txt | tail -5

# Blocked tasks
ls scripts/ralph/runs/*/block-*.md 2>/dev/null

# Pending tasks
flowctl ready --json
```

**Partial run?** Review `block-*.md`, fix issues, re-run `ralph.sh` (resumes from pending).

### 2. Review Changes

```bash
# Summary
cat scripts/ralph/runs/*/progress.txt

# All reviews passed
ls scripts/ralph/runs/*/receipts/

# Commits
git log --oneline
```

### 3. Review by Epic

Commits include task IDs (`feat(fn-1.1): ...`):

```bash
git log --oneline --grep="fn-1"
git log --oneline --grep="fn-2"
```

### 4. Merge

**All good:**

```bash
git checkout main
git merge ralph-<run-id>
# Or: gh pr create
```

**One epic is bad — cherry-pick good ones:**

```bash
git checkout main
git cherry-pick <fn-1-commits>
git cherry-pick <fn-2-commits>
# Skip fn-3
```

**One epic is bad — revert and merge:**

```bash
git checkout ralph-<run-id>
git revert <fn-3-commits>
git checkout main
git merge ralph-<run-id>
```

### 5. Find Commit SHAs

```bash
git log --oneline --grep="fn-1"
flowctl show fn-1.1 --json | jq '.evidence.commits'
```

---

## References

- [flowctl CLI](flowctl.md)
- [Flow-Next README](../README.md)
- [flow-next-tui](../../../flow-next-tui/README.md)
- Test scripts: `plugins/flow-next/scripts/ralph_e2e_*.sh`

Commit message:

fix(flow-next): remove DCG allowlist - blocking uninstall is correct
DCG should block `rm -rf .flow/` and `rm -rf scripts/ralph/`:
- Protects user's epics, tasks, and run artifacts
- Uninstall is a manual operation, not AI-driven
- Allowlisting defeats the purpose of DCG protection

plugins/flow-next/docs/ralph.md, after:

# Ralph — Autonomous Loop

Ralph is Flow-Next's repo-local autonomous harness. It loops over tasks, applies multi-model review gates, and produces production-quality code overnight.

> **TL;DR**: External shell loop → fresh Claude session per task → cross-model review gates → receipt-based proof-of-work → iterate until SHIP.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
  - [How It Works](#how-it-works)
  - [Why Ralph vs ralph-wiggum](#why-ralph-vs-ralph-wiggum)
- [Quality Gates](#quality-gates)
  - [Multi-Model Reviews](#1-multi-model-reviews)
  - [Receipt-Based Gating](#2-receipt-based-gating)
  - [Review Loops Until SHIP](#3-review-loops-until-ship)
  - [Memory Capture](#4-memory-capture-opt-in)
- [Configuration Reference](#configuration-reference)
- [Review Backends](#review-backends)
  - [RepoPrompt](#repoprompt-integration)
  - [Codex CLI](#codex-integration)
- [Run Artifacts](#run-artifacts)
- [Controlling Ralph](#controlling-ralph)
- [Testing & Debugging](#testing--debugging)
- [Safety & Isolation](#safety--isolation)
  - [Docker Sandbox](#docker-sandbox)
  - [DCG (Destructive Command Guard)](#dcg-destructive-command-guard)
  - [Guard Hooks](#guard-hooks)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Morning Review Workflow](#morning-review-workflow)

---

## Quick Start

### 1. Initialize

```bash
# Inside Claude Code
/flow-next:ralph-init

# Or from terminal
claude -p "/flow-next:ralph-init"
```

Creates `scripts/ralph/` with:

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `ralph.sh` | Main loop |
| `ralph_once.sh` | Single iteration (testing) |
| `config.env` | All settings |
| `runs/` | Artifacts and logs |

### 2. Configure

Edit `scripts/ralph/config.env`:

```bash
PLAN_REVIEW=codex   # rp, codex, or none
WORK_REVIEW=codex   # rp, codex, or none
```

### 3. Test

```bash
scripts/ralph/ralph_once.sh
```

> **Always test first.** Runs one iteration then exits. Observe before committing to a full run.

### 4. Run

```bash
scripts/ralph/ralph.sh
```

Ralph spawns Claude sessions via `claude -p`, loops until done, and applies review gates.

**Watch mode** — see activity in real-time:

```bash
scripts/ralph/ralph.sh --watch           # Tool calls only
scripts/ralph/ralph.sh --watch verbose   # Include model responses
```

### 5. Monitor (Optional)

```bash
bun add -g @gmickel/flow-next-tui
flow-next-tui
```

Real-time TUI for task progress, streaming logs, and run state.

![flow-next-tui](../../../assets/tui.png)

### Uninstall

```bash
rm -rf scripts/ralph/
```

---

## Architecture

### How It Works

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  scripts/ralph/ralph.sh                                      │
│  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐  │
│  │  while flowctl next returns work:                      │  │
│  │    1. claude -p "/flow-next:plan" or :work             │  │
│  │    2. check review receipts                            │  │
│  │    3. if missing/invalid → retry                       │  │
│  │    4. if SHIP verdict → next task                      │  │
│  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  A[ralph.sh loop] --> B[flowctl next]
  B -->|plan needed| C[/flow-next:plan/]
  C --> D[/flow-next:plan-review/]
  B -->|work needed| E[/flow-next:work/]
  E --> F[/flow-next:impl-review/]
  D --> G{Receipt valid?}
  F --> G
  G -- yes --> H{Verdict = SHIP?}
  H -- yes --> B
  H -- no --> I[Fix issues, retry review]
  I --> G
  G -- no --> J[Force retry iteration]
  J --> B
```

### Why Ralph vs ralph-wiggum

Anthropic's official ralph-wiggum uses a Stop hook to keep Claude in the same session. Flow-Next inverts this for production-grade reliability.

| Aspect | ralph-wiggum | Ralph |
|--------|--------------|-------|
| **Session** | Single, accumulating | Fresh per iteration |
| **Loop** | Stop hook, same session | External bash, new `claude -p` |
| **Context** | Grows until full | Clean slate every time |
| **Failed attempts** | Pollute future work | Gone with session |
| **Re-anchoring** | None | Every iteration |
| **Quality gates** | Tests only | Multi-model reviews |
| **Stuck detection** | `--max-iterations` | Auto-block after N failures |
| **Auditability** | Session transcript | Logs + receipts + evidence |

**The core problems with ralph-wiggum:**

1. **Context pollution** — Failed attempts mislead future iterations
2. **No re-anchoring** — Claude loses sight of the spec as context fills
3. **Single model** — Claude grades its own homework
4. **Binary outcome** — Completion promise or max iterations

**Ralph's solution:** Fresh context + multi-model review gates + receipt-based proof-of-work.

---

## Quality Gates

Ralph enforces quality through four mechanisms:

### 1. Multi-Model Reviews

A second model verifies code. Two models catch what one misses.

| Backend | Platform | Context | Recommended |
|---------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `rp` | macOS (GUI) | Full file context via Builder | Yes |
| `codex` | Cross-platform | Heuristic context from changed files | Fallback |
| `none` | Any | — | Not for production |

- **Plan reviews** — Verify architecture before coding
- **Impl reviews** — Verify implementation meets spec

### 2. Receipt-Based Gating

Every review produces a receipt JSON:

```json
{
  "type": "impl_review",
  "id": "fn-1.1",
  "mode": "rp",
  "timestamp": "2026-01-09T..."
}
```

**No receipt = no progress.** Ralph retries until receipt exists.

This is at-least-once delivery. The agent is untrusted; receipts are proof-of-work.

### 3. Review Loops Until SHIP

Reviews block progress until approved:

```xml
<verdict>SHIP</verdict>
```

Fix → re-review → fix → re-review... until the reviewer approves.

**Verdict tags:**

| Verdict | Meaning |
|---------|---------|
| `<verdict>SHIP</verdict>` | Approved, proceed |
| `<verdict>NEEDS_WORK</verdict>` | Fix issues, re-review |
| `<verdict>MAJOR_RETHINK</verdict>` | Fundamental problems |

> **Common failures:**
> - Plain text "SHIP" → review skill not used correctly
> - Interactive prompt (a/b/c) → backend misconfigured
> - No verdict → check iteration log

### 4. Memory Capture (Opt-in)

When enabled, NEEDS_WORK reviews auto-capture learnings:

```bash
flowctl config set memory.enabled true
```

Builds `.flow/memory/pitfalls.md` — things reviewers catch that models miss.

> **Note:** Memory config is in `.flow/config.json`, separate from Ralph's `config.env`.

---

## Configuration Reference

Edit `scripts/ralph/config.env`:

### Reviews

| Variable | Values | Default | Description |
|----------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `PLAN_REVIEW` | `rp`, `codex`, `none` | — | Plan review backend |
| `WORK_REVIEW` | `rp`, `codex`, `none` | — | Impl review backend |
| `REQUIRE_PLAN_REVIEW` | `0`, `1` | `0` | Block work until plan approved |

### Branches

| Variable | Values | Default | Description |
|----------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `BRANCH_MODE` | `new`, `current`, `worktree` | `new` | Branch strategy |

- `new` — One branch for entire run (`ralph-<run-id>`)
- `current` — Work on current branch
- `worktree` — Git worktrees (advanced)

### Limits

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `MAX_ITERATIONS` | `25` | Total loop iterations |
| `MAX_TURNS` | ∞ | Claude turns per iteration |
| `MAX_ATTEMPTS_PER_TASK` | `5` | Retries before auto-blocking |
| `MAX_REVIEW_ITERATIONS` | `3` | Fix+re-review cycles per review |
| `WORKER_TIMEOUT` | `3600` | Seconds before killing stuck worker |

### Scope

| Variable | Example | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `EPICS` | `fn-1,fn-2` | Limit to specific epics (empty = all) |

### Permissions

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `YOLO` | `1` | Skip permission prompts |

> **Note:** `YOLO=1` is required for unattended runs. Set `YOLO=0` for interactive testing.

### Display

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `RALPH_UI` | `1` | Colored/emoji output |

### Codex-Specific

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `CODEX_SANDBOX` | `auto` | `read-only`, `workspace-write`, `danger-full-access`, `auto` |
| `FLOW_CODEX_EMBED_MAX_BYTES` | `500000` | Max bytes embedded in prompts |

> **Windows:** Use `auto` or `danger-full-access`. The `read-only` mode blocks all shell commands.

---

## Review Backends

### RepoPrompt Integration

When using `PLAN_REVIEW=rp` or `WORK_REVIEW=rp`:

```bash
flowctl rp pick-window --repo-root .  # Find window
flowctl rp builder ...                 # Build context
flowctl rp chat-send ...               # Send to reviewer
```

> **Never call `rp-cli` directly in Ralph mode.** Use flowctl wrappers.

Window selection is automatic. With RP 1.5.68+, `--create` auto-opens windows.

### Codex Integration

When using `PLAN_REVIEW=codex` or `WORK_REVIEW=codex`:

```bash
flowctl codex check                    # Verify available
flowctl codex impl-review ...          # Run impl review
flowctl codex plan-review <id> --files "src/auth.ts,src/config.ts"
```

**Requirements:**

```bash
npm install -g @openai/codex && codex auth
```

**Advantages:**
- Cross-platform (Windows, Linux, macOS)
- Terminal-based (no GUI)
- Session continuity via `thread_id`

---

## Run Artifacts

Each run creates:

```
scripts/ralph/runs/<run-id>/
├── iter-001.log           # Raw Claude output
├── iter-002.log
├── progress.txt           # Append-only run log
├── attempts.json          # Per-task retry counts
├── branches.json          # Branch info
├── receipts/
│   ├── plan-fn-1.json     # Plan review receipt
│   └── impl-fn-1.1.json   # Impl review receipt
└── block-fn-1.2.md        # Written when task auto-blocked
```

---

## Controlling Ralph

### CLI Commands

```bash
flowctl status                    # Epic/task counts + active runs
flowctl ralph pause               # Pause run
flowctl ralph resume              # Resume run
flowctl ralph stop                # Graceful stop
flowctl ralph status              # Show run state
flowctl ralph pause --run <id>    # Specify run when multiple active
```

### Sentinel Files

```bash
# Pause
touch scripts/ralph/runs/<run-id>/PAUSE

# Resume
rm scripts/ralph/runs/<run-id>/PAUSE

# Stop (kept for audit)
touch scripts/ralph/runs/<run-id>/STOP
```

Ralph checks sentinels at iteration boundaries.

### Task Retry/Rollback

```bash
flowctl unblock fn-1.2                    # Re-enable blocked task
flowctl update fn-1.2 --status pending    # Reset to pending
```

---

## Testing & Debugging

### Single Iteration

```bash
scripts/ralph/ralph_once.sh
```

Runs one iteration then exits. Verify setup before full runs.

### Watch Mode

```bash
scripts/ralph/ralph.sh --watch           # Tool calls
scripts/ralph/ralph.sh --watch verbose   # Include responses
```

Real-time visibility without blocking autonomy.

### Verbose Logging

```bash
FLOW_RALPH_VERBOSE=1 scripts/ralph/ralph.sh
```

Detailed logs → `scripts/ralph/runs/<run>/ralph.log`

### Debug Environment Variables

```bash
FLOW_RALPH_CLAUDE_MODEL=claude-opus-4-5-20251101
FLOW_RALPH_CLAUDE_DEBUG=hooks
FLOW_RALPH_CLAUDE_PERMISSION_MODE=bypassPermissions
```

---

## Safety & Isolation

### Docker Sandbox

Run Ralph inside Docker for isolation:

```bash
docker sandbox run claude "scripts/ralph/ralph.sh"
docker sandbox run -w ~/my-project claude "scripts/ralph/ralph.sh"
```

See [Docker sandbox docs](https://docs.docker.com/ai/sandboxes/claude-code/).

**Community sandbox setups:**

- [devcontainer-for-claude-yolo-and-flow-next](https://github.com/Ranudar/devcontainer-for-claude-yolo-and-flow-next) — VS Code devcontainer with Playwright, firewall whitelisting, RepoPrompt MCP bridge
- [agent-sandbox](https://github.com/novotnyllc/agent-sandbox) — Docker Sandbox (Desktop 4.50+) with seccomp/namespace isolation

### DCG (Destructive Command Guard)

[DCG](https://github.com/Dicklesworthstone/destructive_command_guard) blocks destructive commands before execution.

**What it blocks:**

| Command | Without DCG | With DCG |
|---------|-------------|----------|
| `git reset --hard` | Loses work | Blocked |
| `rm -rf ./src` | Deletes source | Blocked |
| `git push --force` | Overwrites history | Blocked |
| `git clean -f` | Deletes files | Blocked |

**Install:**

```bash
curl -fsSL "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Dicklesworthstone/destructive_command_guard/master/install.sh?$(date +%s)" | bash -s -- --easy-mode
```

**Compatibility:** DCG uses fail-open design — timeouts allow commands. Flow-next uses safe git patterns and quoted heredocs that DCG handles correctly.

> **Note:** DCG will block `rm -rf .flow/` and `rm -rf scripts/ralph/` — this is correct behavior. Uninstall commands should be run manually, not via AI agents. Your epics and tasks are protected.

**Verify:**

```bash
dcg test 'git reset --hard HEAD'    # Should block
dcg test 'git checkout -b feature'  # Should allow
```

**Uninstall:**

```bash
rm ~/.local/bin/dcg
# Edit ~/.claude/settings.json to remove dcg hook
rm -rf ~/.config/dcg/
```

**More info:** [DCG GitHub](https://github.com/Dicklesworthstone/destructive_command_guard) · [Pack Reference](https://github.com/Dicklesworthstone/destructive_command_guard/blob/master/docs/packs/README.md)

### Guard Hooks

Plugin hooks enforce workflow rules deterministically.

> **Only active when `FLOW_RALPH=1`** — zero overhead for non-Ralph users.

| Rule | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| No `--json` on chat-send | Preserve review text output |
| No `--new-chat` on re-reviews | Keep conversation context |
| Receipt before Stop | Prevent skipping reviews |
| Required flags on setup | Ensure proper targeting |

**Location:**

```
plugins/flow-next/
  hooks/hooks.json              # Config
  scripts/hooks/ralph-guard.py  # Logic
```

**Disable temporarily:** Unset `FLOW_RALPH`

**Disable permanently:** Delete `hooks/` directory

---

## Troubleshooting

### Review Gate Loops

**Symptoms:** Ralph keeps retrying the same task.

**Check receipts:**

```bash
ls scripts/ralph/runs/*/receipts/
```

**Check verdict:**

```bash
grep -i verdict scripts/ralph/runs/*/iter-*.log | tail -5
```

**Common causes:**
- No receipt file → review skill not invoked
- Wrong verdict format → plain text instead of XML tags
- Receipt exists but verdict is NEEDS_WORK → implementation has issues

### Auto-Blocked Tasks

After `MAX_ATTEMPTS_PER_TASK` failures:

1. Ralph writes `block-<task>.md` with context
2. Marks task blocked via `flowctl block`
3. Moves to next task

**To retry:**

```bash
flowctl unblock fn-1.2
```

### RepoPrompt Issues

**"rp-cli not found":**

```bash
# Install RepoPrompt, then:
which rp-cli
```

**Window not found:**

- RP 1.5.68+: Use `--create` flag
- Older: Open RepoPrompt on your repo manually

**Alternative:** Switch to Codex backend.

### Codex Issues

**"codex not found":**

```bash
npm install -g @openai/codex
codex auth
```

**Windows "blocked by policy":**

```bash
# In config.env:
CODEX_SANDBOX=auto
```

The `read-only` sandbox blocks all commands on Windows.

### Run Inspection

```bash
# Progress
cat scripts/ralph/runs/*/progress.txt

# Latest iteration
tail -100 scripts/ralph/runs/*/iter-*.log | tail -1

# Blocked tasks
ls scripts/ralph/runs/*/block-*.md
```

---

## Morning Review Workflow

After overnight runs, review and merge the work.

### 1. Check Completion

```bash
# Run status
cat scripts/ralph/runs/*/progress.txt | tail -5

# Blocked tasks
ls scripts/ralph/runs/*/block-*.md 2>/dev/null

# Pending tasks
flowctl ready --json
```

**Partial run?** Review `block-*.md`, fix issues, re-run `ralph.sh` (resumes from pending).

### 2. Review Changes

```bash
# Summary
cat scripts/ralph/runs/*/progress.txt

# All reviews passed
ls scripts/ralph/runs/*/receipts/

# Commits
git log --oneline
```

### 3. Review by Epic

Commits include task IDs (`feat(fn-1.1): ...`):

```bash
git log --oneline --grep="fn-1"
git log --oneline --grep="fn-2"
```

### 4. Merge

**All good:**

```bash
git checkout main
git merge ralph-<run-id>
# Or: gh pr create
```

**One epic is bad — cherry-pick good ones:**

```bash
git checkout main
git cherry-pick <fn-1-commits>
git cherry-pick <fn-2-commits>
# Skip fn-3
```

**One epic is bad — revert and merge:**

```bash
git checkout ralph-<run-id>
git revert <fn-3-commits>
git checkout main
git merge ralph-<run-id>
```

### 5. Find Commit SHAs

```bash
git log --oneline --grep="fn-1"
flowctl show fn-1.1 --json | jq '.evidence.commits'
```

---

## References

- [flowctl CLI](flowctl.md)
- [Flow-Next README](../README.md)
- [flow-next-tui](../../../flow-next-tui/README.md)
- Test scripts: `plugins/flow-next/scripts/ralph_e2e_*.sh`
